DOC Add information about deprecations (#126)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/03_Upgrading/02_Upgrade_to_CMS5.md

---

> title: Upgrading a project to CMS 5

Reviewer: This probably should just be a general doc about deprecations - this will apply for every major release going forward, so it makes sense for it to stay in a single place throughout the lifetime of Silverstripe CMS

Author: I've moved it to the 05_Contributing sections as 18_Deprecations.md

> summary: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated

---

> ### Updating your codebase to use Silverstripe CMS 5 API

Reviewer: Headings can't start at level 3. Add a level 1 for the page title, then increment from there for subheadings.

Author: Updated

You'll need to go through your codebase to remove references to deprecated APIs and update your project logic.

> Silverstripe CMS 5 introduces many API changes. They include are deprecation message that will either tell you:

Reviewer: > They include are deprecation message

I'm not quite sure what this should say, but that isn't grammatically correct. Most likely "are" should be "a"?

Author: Updated

> - To simply use an different yet equivalent API instead, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- to simply use a different yet equivalent API instead, or
```
Lowercase here as per our writing standards doc on confluence

Author: Updated

> - The API in question has no replacement. This is usually for API that was mostly irrelevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the API in question has no replacement. This is usually for API that was mostly irrelevant.
```

Author: Updated

> To see deprecation warnings in your project and in your projects CI, add the `SS_DEPRECATION_ENABLED=true` to your projects `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see deprecation warnings in your project and in your project's CI, add `SS_DEPRECATION_ENABLED=true` to your project's `.env` file.
```

Author: Updated

> Alternatively, add the following line to you projects `app/_config.php`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, add the following line to you project's `app/_config.php`.
```

Author: Updated

```php
Deprecation::enable()
```

> Deprecation notices will only ever show if your `SS_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE` is set to `dev`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecation notices will only ever show if your `SS_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE` is set to `dev`.
```

Author: Updated

> Your project will now start emitting deprecation warnings on the frontend if you are calling deprecated code, along with the different API you should now use instead provided it exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your project will now start emitting deprecation warnings on the frontend if you are calling deprecated code, along with the different API you should now use instead, if a replacement exists.
```

Author: Updated

> Not all API that was deprecated in CMS 4 that has an equivalent API has that API in CMS 4, some of the API is only available from CMS 5.  A good example of this is the upgrade for what powers the `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email` class from `swiftmailer` in CMS 4 to `symfony/mailer` in CMS 5.  You'll need to upgrade to CMS 5 before you can access the `symfony/mailer` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all API that was deprecated in CMS 4 that has an equivalent API has that API in CMS 4; some of the API is only available from CMS 5.  A good example of this is the upgrade for what powers the `SilverStripe\Control\Email\Email` class from `swiftmailer` in CMS 4 to `symfony/mailer` in CMS 5.  You'll need to upgrade to CMS 5 before you can access the `symfony/mailer` API.

Your project will emit deprecation notices for these, although there may be nothing you can do to stop calling that code until you upgrade to CMS 5. In this case you should use the deprecation notice to construct a list of what you may need to change after upgrading.

Once you have resolved all of the deprecation notices you can, it is recommended to turn off deprecation notices again.
```

Author: Updated

In order to also see these API's that do not have an immediate replacement, add the following config to your project

```yml
SilverStripe\Dev\Deprecation
  showNoReplacementNotices: true

> ```

Reviewer: This is marked as `@internal` so it can't be set as config. What's more, looking at the code this seems to only be used to determine whether to emit _nested_ deprecation notices inside a `Deprecation::withNoReplacement()`. Not every "will be removed without equivalent functionality" call is inside one of these.

The deprecations in the `Email` class for example aren't inside one of these calls.

Author: Opps :-p Have removed
